---
layout: page
title:  "Shopicruit"
date:   2015-10-14
categories: tutorial
---
a tutorial to demonstrate how to use JavaScript to access, manipulate and display some JSON data from a remote server.

In this example, the data is a product list from a [Shopify][shopify] store.  The data is in JSON format and can be accessed at http://shopicruit.myshopify.com/products.json

The script uses the [JSONP][jsonp] technique to get the JSON data from the remote server.  We don't want to display all the data that is returned so we'll filter the data by type and only display certain information from the filtered data.  Finally, the prices of all the items displayed are summed to get a total price for display.

Check out the [example json][json] to see how it is structured.

What we'll do:

* access the json data using the jsonp technique

* filter the products list for all lamps and wallets

* add all the prices for every lamp and wallet variant

* display the name product info for all lamps and wallets, their variants and the total of all items we selected on webpage

## Getting Started

Create a local folder called “lamps-and-wallets” to house the project files. We’ll refer to this folder as the project folder.

There are a few resources you’ll need before we get started:

* data

In the project folder, create an index.html file.

Start by creating a simple HTML page:
{% highlight html %}
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8 />
<title>Lamps and Wallets</title>
<script src=''></script>
<link href='' rel='stylesheet' />
<style>

</style>
</head>
<body>

<script>

</script>
</body>
{% endhighlight %}

Next, let’s markup the page to create a heading, and containers for the product listing and a total price.
create a heading and the elements that will contain the content in the `<body>` of the HTML page:
{% highlight html %}
<h2>Lamps and Wallets</h2>
<h3 id="total"></h3>
<div id="allItems"></div>
{% endhighlight %}

Now that we have the structure of the project, let’s...

first script element: wraps the code which is used to process the JSON data, creates the HTML and writes it into the page in a function called getProducts()

the JSON data from the remote server comes in as an argument of the function call

second script element loads information from the remote server.  The name of the function that processes the data is given in the query string:
{% highlight javascript %}
<script src="https://shopicruit.myshopify.com/products.json?callback=getProducts"></script>
{% endhighlight %}

loop through the objects that represent each product using a for loop. data is accessed using dot notation.  inside the loop, the contents of the object are added to the newContent variable along with their corresponding HTML markup.
when finished looping through the products and their variants the new HTML is added to the page using innerHTML property.

[json]:      http://shopicruit.myshopify.com/products.json
[jsonp]:     https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSONP
[shopify]:   https://shopify.com
